The Project Gutenberg eBook, Spawn of the Desert, by W. C. (Wilbur C.)
Tuttle


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: Spawn of the Desert


Author: W. C. (Wilbur C.) Tuttle



Release Date: January 13, 2021  [eBook #64284]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPAWN OF THE DESERT***


E-text prepared by Tim Lindell, Susan Carr, and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net) from page images generously made
available by Internet Archive (https://archive.org)



Note: Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive. See
      https://archive.org/details/spawnofdesert00tuttrich





SPAWN OF THE DESERT

by

W. C. TUTTLE


[Illustration: (Colophon)]






Garden City      New York
Garden City Publishing Co., Inc.
1924

Copyright, 1922, by
Doubleday, Page & Company
All Rights Reserved

Printed in the United States
at
The Country Life Press, Garden City, N. Y.




                         SPAWN OF THE DESERT




                              CONTENTS

     Chapter                                                     Page

        I                                                          1

       II                                                         30

      III                                                         35

       IV                                                         42

        V                                                         57

       VI                                                         67

      VII                                                         86




                         SPAWN OF THE DESERT


                                  I


The Mohave Indians have a legend of the Calico Mountains and their
origin. According to their beliefs, the Great Spirit finished the big
task of making the world at this spot.

The desert was the final work of the Great Spirit, and he was much
pleased; but in his arms he held a big jumble of rocks, sand and
pigments, which were left from the great work. The world was all
made and very good to look upon, so he had no place for this extra
material.

To get rid of it he simply dropped it at his feet in a mass, and
the many-hued pigments spilled over it until the whole was as a
bright-hued piece of cloth.

Thus, according to the Indians, was formed these mountains, which are
but a jumble of barren rocks, rising sheer from the level desert;
scourged through the centuries by the desert sun, wind and sand--an
unfading proof that, unlike man, the Great Spirit painted deeper than
the surface.

But with all their gaudy colors in the sun, these mountains, at
night, are black silhouettes, which appear to be without breadth or
thickness; or broken into misty, hazy, unreal piles in the moonlight.

On all sides the desert stretches away to the haze of nothingness--a
land of the mirage; scenes which the jealous desert steals from arid
lands and holds up to the eyes of desert men to lure them on. Cities,
rivers, lakes, with cool, nodding palms, rippling brooks, which seem
only a few feet away, then fade out to show a waste of dust-gray
mesquite, which rattles in the hot winds, Joshua-trees, with their
agonized arms--and sand. Always the sand.

On a rocky plateau of this painted range stood a town--one street of
adobe shacks, paved with the solid rock of the mountain. Even the
houses were tinted with fantastic colors, where the clay had been
mixed with the muck of the silver mines.

At the upper end of the street the cliffs arose sheer for several
hundred feet, like gaudy drapes of calico. At the lower end was a
succession of broken ledges, which sloped off to the desert, where
the winding trails came in from the rest of the world.

To the left of the town was a deep, rocky gorge, so grotesque in
formation that it did not appear to be a work of nature. There were
natural stone bridges, caves, barriers--unreal in color and design,
as though a child-minded giant had modeled them in colored clay and
left them to harden in the blistering sun.

This was the residence section of Calico Town, and was known as
Sunshine Alley. Just below where the Alley opened onto the desert,
on a slight rise of ground, full in the glare of the sun, and with
no protection from the ever-sifting sand, was the graveyard, which
was known as Hell’s Depot. Not a blade of grass, not even a spray of
sage grew here. The ground was a mass of small stones, seemingly laid
close together like tiles, but showing patterns in colors that would
put any man-made mosaic to shame.

One foot deep was the limit of the graves, as the rock below that
depth was glass-like flint, but what the graves lacked in depth was
made up in height. The mounds of rock were piled until one might
believe that the corpse had been of gigantic proportions, or that
the sexton wished to preclude any chance of the dead coming back in
material form.

Such was Calico in the early ’fifties, when men were gold- and
silver-mad. A town of thirty-five hundred population--a population
which lived in caves, hollowed places in Sunshine Alley, or picked a
corner in the rock and builded a rock barrier around them. This gave
a roofless dwelling, but rain did not come to Calico, so there was no
need for roofs. Water was worth more than whiskey, and morals were as
scarce as orchids.

Just now a funeral was in progress, or rather, had been in progress.
The corpse was there in the rough casket; the grave was dug and the
pall-bearers stood aside, reverently holding their hats in their
hands. Clustered around was a cosmopolitan mining-camp audience.
Frock-coated, tall-hatted gamblers rubbed elbows with muck-stained
miners. Calico-clad wives of miners, children, dogs, and even a group
of burros poked onto the flat to add their faces to the mournful
proceedings.

Up the desert trail came two men and a lightly-packed burro; all of
them gray with the dust and heat. The one who led the caravan was a
mighty, weatherbeaten man, with a long, white beard. In appearance he
might have been a saint. Surely he could not be a sinner, with the
eyes of a dreamer, the nose of a prophet and the beard of a saint;
but nature does queer things to disappoint students of physiognomy.

The other man was also tall. His face showed him to be about thirty
years of age--a face seemingly hewed from stone, although handsome
in its stern mold. His hair was black and he wore it low between his
cheek and ear. There was the free, easy swing to his walk, like the
half-lope of a desert wolf.

The patriarch halted the caravan on the trail, just short of the
street end, and gazed across at the funeral. The younger man glanced
over there, with little show of interest.

“Duke,” the old man jerked his head toward the graveyard, “I reckon
they’re plantin’ somebody. Let’s me and you go over.”

They left their burro on the trail and crossed over, attracting
little attention. The crowd seemed to be waiting for someone. Two men
were standing near the grave, talking earnestly. Suddenly one of them
looked up and saw the newcomers. He walked abruptly away from his
companion and halted a few feet from the white-bearded man.

“Podner, by yore whiskers yo’re a preacher; are yuh?”

The bearded one’s right hand came up and slowly stroked the white
mass of hair, which hung nearly to his waist-line.

“By my beard,” nodded the old man slowly, which neither affirmed
nor denied in fact, but seemed to bring joy to the heart of his
questioner, who turned on his heel, facing the crowd.

“Folks, we’re playin’ in luck. The funeral will proceed jist like
nothin’ happened extraordinary.”

“Just a moment, pardner,” said the bearded one, “What happens to be
the matter?”

“Not a damn thing,” laughed the man. “We needed a preacher awful
bad--you showed up. There yuh are!”

“Have you no preacher?”

“We did have. Yessir, we shore had a reg’lar one, and he was
plumb tidy and slick on funerals--yessir. But he forgot himself
complete-like last night when he ’lowed there wasn’t no honest rules
of averages, which gives him small cards all the time, while ‘Ace’
Ault get nothin’ smaller than kings-up in ten deals.”

“Hm-m-m,” the white bearded one almost smiled, “Where is this
poker-playin’ preacher now?”

“Well, hell’s delight!” grunted the other. “He’s in the casket! We
plumb forgot that he couldn’t say his own oration. That’s where you
comes in handy, like a gun in a boot.”

The patriarch’s head turned slightly and his eyes flashed to the
face of his companion, who was regarding him with stony countenance,
although the eyes twitched slightly at the outer corners, a sure sign
that Duke Steele was greatly amused.

The bearded one crossed to the grave and looked down at the rough
coffin, while the audience moved in closer. A burro brayed raucously
and two more of the long-eared beasts added their brazen throats to
the racket. A miner heaved a rock against the ribs of the nearest
beast, and the animal clattered away for a few jumps, looking back
solemnly, sadly.

“Friends,” the bearded man’s voice was deep and musical, as he
lifted his bared head and let his eyes travel around the assemblage,
“friends, I have been asked to say a few words over the mortal
remains of one of God’s anointed; a man who has labored in this land
of sin and sinners that the Gospel might be brought home to you all.
He was fearless in his righteousness; a guide, friend and spiritual
counselor.

“He is with you no more, except in spirit, but his many good works
will live long after his name has been forgotten. I can see him
now--a bulwark of strength to the weak, a solace to the suffering and
a friend to all mankind. I can see him----”

“Wait a moment, parson,” interrupted the man who had asked the
bearded one to deliver the sermon. He stepped forward, hat in hand,
clearing his throat apologetically. “I ain’t no hand to stop a
feller from sayin’ what he thinks; but did you know ‘Preacher Bill’
Bushnell?”

The old man shook his head.

“No, I did not know him, friend.”

“I didn’t reckon yuh did, parson. We did. I believe in sayin’
everythin’ good yuh can fer a dead man, but there ain’t no use of yuh
lyin’ to us about Preacher Bill.”

The old man glanced down at the coffin, lifted his head slowly and
nodded.

“If the Lord is willing, I will take back what I said about him, and
start all over again. Wasn’t he your minister? Did he not labor among
you?”

“He preached,” admitted a bearded miner seriously, and added, “when
he was sober enough. He owed everybody in Calico, and if he left any
good works he sure had ’em cached where nobody’ll ever find ’em.”

The bearded man nodded slowly and cleared his throat.

“Under those conditions, friends, I suppose I might as well keep away
from personalities, and stick to the ordinary burial service. Has
anyone a Bible?”

The assemblage looked at each other and back at the bearded one.

“Preacher Bill had one--once,” stated a frock-coated gambler. “I
dunno what he done with it. If you’re a preacher where is your
Bible?”

The bearded one glanced quickly at the gambler and held out his hand.

“Let me have a deck of cards, will you?”

“Cards?” queried the gambler, “I have no cards.”

“Then you are no better heeled than I am, partner. I have no Bible,
you have no cards.” He leaned down and placed a hand on the rough
casket.

“Preacher Bill, I wish I had known you well enough to have something
to say about you. No doubt you were a hard drinker, of very little
value to any community, and showed poor judgment in objecting
audibly against a run of bad poker luck, but no man can live through
childhood and well into life’s narrow span without doing some
good--leaving somebody better for having known you. Let him who is
without sin cast the first stone. Good-by, Preacher Bill.”

The bearded man straightened up and looked at the crowd.

“Friends, I ask you to try and remember the good things he has done
and forget the bad. We are all children of circumstance. The Bible
says, ‘The son of man goeth as it is written of him.’

“Whether or not this means that our destiny is all written out in the
good book, I do not know. Perhaps poor Preacher Bill merely traveled
according to what had been written of him--powerless to do otherwise.
Shall we say that he was unfit? I think that is all I can say.”

“Parson,” one of the miners stepped out of the crowd and held out his
hand to the old man, “if you start a church here, I’ll sure as hell
go to hear yuh preach.”

The old man smiled sadly, shook hands with several of the miners and
turned back to where Duke Steele stood. They looked closely at each
other, turned and went back to their burro, without a word; while the
mortal remains of Preacher Bill Bushnell were lowered one foot deep
into Hell’s Depot and piled high with heavy stones.

“Le Saint,” said Duke Steele, as they plodded toward the street, “I
wonder what will be said over your remains?”

The old man turned his head and glanced back toward the group at the
cemetery.

“I wonder, Duke. Perhaps I shall be lucky enough to have my funeral
oration spoken by a man who did not know me any better than I knew
Preacher Bill. Will he say, ‘This is Paget Le Saint,’ or will he say
‘The Saint?’ I wonder. Still, what should I care, Duke?”

“Damn little difference it makes, after a man’s dead,” nodded Duke
Steele.

“True as Gospel, Duke. Life is the only thing that interests me;
death I know nothing about--nor care.”

And the Saint spoke truly, when he said he did not care; for the
Saint was a fatalist, a gambler, who staked his life against other
men’s gold. Just as surely as Kidd and Morgan were pirates of the
seas, the Saint was a pirate of the Desert, whose appearance belied
his calling. Men seemed to speak softly in his presence, as though
awed by the majesty of his face and great white beard. Oaths never
passed his lips and no man had ever seen him take a drink of liquor.
He censured no man for doing evil, and his open philosophy of life
fitted in well with the rough lands of the West.

No man, except Duke Steele, knew the real business of the Saint, and
he knew only because they were of a kind. Duke Steele was a gunman,
a killer, a gambler, and he, alone, knew that the Saint was all of
these. An old wolf in the raiment of a sheep; as resourceful and
dangerous as an old wolf, and with the brain of a Solomon.

But no man, not excepting Duke Steele, knew anything more about the
Saint than they had observed from contact with him, for he confided
in no man. He had wandered much, and at times would mention distant
parts of the country.

Names seemed to interest him greatly--names of men. It was as though
he was always searching for a certain name, which he could only
remember by hearing it spoken. Duke Steele wondered at times if the
Saint was not just a trifle insane.

For he was a strange personality at times; given to brooding,
violence, turning in a flash to extreme kindness and good humor. He
often spoke his own name, as though mocking himself. But of his
ancestry, his early life, he made no mention.

Duke Steele had been one of his gang in a raid on the Cohise mines,
which had been skilfully planned and executed, and without the loss
of a man.

Three weeks before the Saint’s outfit had boasted of twelve men.
Where the other ten were now could only be told by a bunch of
Apaches, who ambushed them beyond the Colorado. The Saint and Duke
Steele were the only ones to escape.

The plunder of the Cohise mining camp had been taken by the Indians,
and the Saint and Steele were forced to be content with saving their
lives and one burro. But Steele was an optimist and the Saint did not
care for money. It meant nothing to him.

Men believed him insane, at times, because of his total disregard
for wealth. He would nurse a sick man with all the tenderness of a
woman, or kill a malcontent with the cold-bloodedness of a tiger. But
travel, he must. His eyes ever turned toward the hills, as though he
was wondering what was on the other side. A prospector had told them
of Calico, and to Calico they had come, with not a drop of water nor
a crumb of food left.

“The Lord must be looking out for us,” observed Duke Steele, as they
herded their burro up the main street.

“Fate,” corrected the Saint. “The Lord has nothing to do with this
place, Duke. It looks like the devil might have located it, did one
or two assessments, and relinquished it on account of the heat.”

A man crossed the street ahead of them and the Saint stopped him with
the question, “Friend, can you tell us where we may find lodging?”

“Lodging?” The man parroted the word. “There ain’t a hotel in Calico.
Better see Sleed, I reckon. Since Preacher Bill got killed there’s a
vacant hole in Sunshine Alley, and maybe yuh can rent it from Sleed.”

“And who is Sleed?” asked the Saint.

“Who?” The man looked curiously at them. “Yuh must be strangers in
this part of the country if yuh don’t know who Sleed is. He’s the big
man around here.

“Owns the Silver Bar saloon over there, and owns the California at
Cactus City. Owns the Lady Slipper and the Nola mines, which are the
biggest producers here. Sleed was one of the original locators, and
he sure does own this town, y’betcha.”

“He owns the hole yuh spoke about?” queried Steele.

“Yep--owns most all of the Alley. You just ask for Silver Sleed over
at the Silver Bar saloon. ’S funny yuh never heard of Silver Sleed.”

“No doubt,” nodded the Saint. “Our sources of information appear very
lax in not apprising us of this great personage. Still, it is never
too late to meet the great. We both thank you, friend.”

The Saint turned the burro toward the front of the Silver Bar saloon,
while their informant shuffled his feet in the gravel street and
wondered whether or not the old patriarch was making fun of him. The
Saint was not over fifty years of age, but looked seventy.

Silver Sleed was a giant of a man, with a great black beard, which
grew almost to his eyes; eyes that reflected a greenish light, like
the sheen of jade. He wore his hair long, after the fashion of
the time, and his clothes were a trifle extreme, but befitted his
occupation and position as the richest and most powerful man in the
country. The law had never penetrated the Calico hills, so Silver
Sleed set himself up as judge and arbiter, from which there was no
appeal. In all cases which did not directly or indirectly affect
himself or his interests, he was fair in his decisions.

The Silver Bar saloon was not a pretentious place, being one story
high, built of adobe, but it was the largest building in Calico. The
floor space was about forty feet wide by sixty feet deep, which was
taken up by a long bar, gambling layouts and a dance floor. It was
the only saloon in Calico, which was conclusive evidence that Sleed
owned the town.

Calico spoke many languages, but among this polyglot of tongues,
only one, Louie Yen, spoke Chinese. Sleed did not like Chinese,
so he limited the camp to Louie Yen, who was a “velly good
laundly--yessum.” Louie was so old that he claimed to remember the
time when Ruby Hill was nothing but a hole in the ground; old and
very wise, after his own fashion.

But no man may rule a community without assistance. Sleed surrounded
himself with a few trusted men, who were paid for doing certain
things without asking the why and wherefore; men who might be
undesirable to a village of God-fearing folk, but passing unnoticed
in Calico, where, according to the parlance of Sunshine Alley,
everything went, except the cook-stove and one joint of pipe.

Just now Sleed was standing with his back to the bar, in the saloon,
his eyes squinted, as though in deep thought. Beside him stood
a slender, dark-featured man, dressed in the habiliments of the
professional gambler. His black eyes were sullen and shifty, and his
long fingers moved nervously at his sides, as he flashed a sidewise
glance at Sleed.

“That’s your idea of a square deal, is it, Sleed?”

Sleed turned his head and looked coldly at the gambler.

“Ace Ault, this ain’t no deal. You killed Preacher Bill
because--well, not because he said yuh dealt a crooked game, but
because yuh was jealous.”

“Jealous, hell!” snapped Ault. “He said----”

“I know what he said,” interrupted Sleed coldly. “It gave yuh the
chance yuh wanted, Ault. Preacher Bill was a dirty old bum and his
tongue was against him, but he was educatin’ Luck. He was smart, and
he was learnin’ her a lot of things. She liked him.”

“And because I protected my honor against his lying tongue I’ve got
to leave the camp, eh?” queried Ault sarcastically.

“Honor?” Sleed laughed into his beard. “Honor? Good God, when did a
tinhorn like you get any honor?”

Ault’s face went a trifle darker, and he lifted his hands to a level
with his waist.

“You travel _muy pronto_,” snapped Sleed. “Better go north, Ault, so
yuh won’t have any reason even to pass Calico town again.”

“Think so?” snapped Ault. His right hand flashed up from under his
coat. From across the room came the jarring thud of a pistol shot,
and Ault jerked back, firing his pistol a foot over Sleed’s head. For
a moment Ault’s eyes shifted around the room, as he grasped at the
bar for support, half-turned toward the door and fell sprawling.

One of Sleed’s men came slowly across the room, pistol in hand,
watching Ault closely. Sleed’s expression had not changed.

“Quick work, Loper,” he said softly. Loper nodded and shoved his gun
back into its holster.

Just then the Saint and Duke Steele came into the door. Sleed looked
at them indifferently, and motioned for some more men to assist in
carrying Ault’s body out of the place. The Saint and Steele stood
aside and watched the men file out.

“Silver Sleed?” asked Steele.

Sleed looked at him for a moment; glanced toward the door as he
nodded. Some of the men who had been at the graveyard were coming in,
looking curiously back at the men carrying Ace Ault.

“We’re lookin’ for a place to live in,” said Steele. “A man told us
to see Silver Sleed.”

“Yeah?” Sleed squinted at the Saint and back to Steele.

“Whatcha goin’ to do in Calico?”

“You didn’t expect an answer to that, did yuh?” asked Steele, with a
smile.

Sleed grunted softly. One of the men from the graveyard stepped in
and spoke to Sleed.

“The graybeard’s a preacher, Sleed. He said a few things for Preacher
Bill, and they was damn well said, after he got put right.”

Sleed looked at the Saint curiously, and found the Saint looking
straight at him. Something in that glance seemed to bother Sleed. It
was as though this tall, white-bearded, hawk-eyed man was peering
into things that Sleed did not want anyone to see. Sleed glanced down
at the floor for a moment and nodded.

“I reckon there’s places to live in. Yuh can have Preacher Bill’s
place or yuh can have--” Sleed looked up and glanced toward the
door--“I think yuh can have the place where Ace Ault lived.”

“We both thank you, sir.” The Saint’s voice boomed like the deep
notes of a pipe-organ.

Sleed glanced quickly at him and saw that the Saint’s eyes were
closed, as though he had shut out material things while he thought
deeply.

“I’ll show ’em the places, Sleed.”

It was the miner who had offered to come to church in case the Saint
would do the preaching. Sleed nodded and turned back to the bar, but
he watched the three men go out of the door.

“Loper, who are them two men?” he asked.

“I dunno.” Loper shook his head.

“Find out.”

Sleed turned back to the bar and called for whiskey. For some unknown
reason he was worried. The killing of Ault amounted to nothing.
He discarded that as a possible reason for his unrest. Was it the
white-bearded man? Sleed scowled at his glass of liquor for a moment
and placed it back on the bar untasted.




                                 II


The Saint and Steele found that there was little choice between the
two dwellings, but they selected the one made vacant by the death of
Preacher Bill. It was a roofless, windowless, rock hut about ten feet
square, built in an angle of the canyon which supplied two of the
walls. An open fireplace was used for cooking, and the utensils were
either placed on rock shelves or on the ground.

Preacher Bill’s blankets were still spread from his last night’s
sleep, but the larder was empty.

“I reckon yuh can get along,” said their guide. “I’m Jim Cates,
but most everybody calls me ‘Mica.’ ’S I said before, if yuh start
preachin’, I’m goin’ t’ have a front seat.”

He started away, but turned back.

“Say, if yuh get a call to speak over the remains of Ace Ault, I can
tell yuh a few things to make yore oration easier. Ault was crooked
as a snake in a cactus patch. He never----”

Mica Cates stopped talking and cleared his throat. A girl had come up
near the doorway and was looking at them. She was about twenty years
of age, fairly well dressed. A pair of big, brown eyes, misty with
tears, looked at them from a cameo-like face, which was framed in a
mass of brown hair. Her cheeks were streaked with tear-marks and her
lips quivered as she looked around. Then she turned, without a word,
and disappeared around the canyon wall.

“Sleed’s daughter,” said Cates softly. “Her name is Nola, but Sleed
said she was his luck so many times that everybody calls her Luck.”

“Been cryin’,” said Steele wonderingly.

“Uh-huh. Mebbe yuh didn’t see her down to Hell’s Depot. She was
there. I reckon she was the only one to care about Preacher Bill. Yuh
see, she ain’t had no chance to learn book teachin’s, until Preacher
Bill took to learnin’ her. He was eddicated a lot, and she sure
wanted to learn.”

Steele nodded. “She’s a mighty pretty girl, Cates.”

“And ’nother thing,” said Cates softly, “yuh don’t want to have
nothin’ t’ do with her. Sleed’s a killer, where Luck’s concerned.
Mebbe that’s one reason why Ault got a ticket for the Depot. Jist let
her alone and don’t cross Silver Sleed, and you’ll git along here.
What did yuh say yore names was?”

The Saint held out his hand and Cates shook hands with him, flinching
from the crushing grip of the Saint’s hand.

“We both thank you, Mica Cates,” boomed the Saint. “If I preach in
Calico town I shall deem it a pleasure to see you in the front row.”

Mica Cates bobbed his head and hurried away. He flexed his right hand
and shook his head.

“My Gawd, I never knowed a preacher with a grip like that--nossir! I
didn’t find out their names and I’m danged if I’d ever ask any man
twice.”

Cates climbed back up the rocky trail to the street, where he met
Loper.

“Where did they hole up?” asked Loper.

“Preacher Bill’s place.”

“Ask ’em their names, Mica?”

“Y’betcha, I did.”

“What names did they give yuh?”

Mica Cates glanced back down the trail, wiped the perspiration off
his brow with the back of his hand.

“They ain’t givin’ away names, I reckon.”

“Yuh asked ’em, didn’t yuh?” snapped Loper angrily.

“Y’betcha, I did. Mebbe they didn’t hear me--I dunno.”

Loper hitched up his belt and strode back to the street. It was very
hot and he had no desire to climb down into Sunshine Alley and argue
about names.




                                 III


“We’ve got a home,” said Duke Steele dubiously, as he leaned against
the rough stone doorway, squinting in the reflected light from the
desert sun; “but when we got there the cupboard was bare.”

“Yes,” nodded the Saint, “but how long have we fasted, Duke? Since
breakfast.” He pointed at the hills above them, dotted with tunnels,
where a host of men drove into the bowels of the earth. Came the dull
jar of blasting, the rattle of falling rock from the ever-growing
dumps.

“Men are toiling up there, Duke; while down on the street another
group of non-toilers are planning to get the fruits of that labor,
without toil. You and I do not toil; therefore we must use our
brains to devise ways and means to get the necessary provender.”

“Just about how?” queried Duke.

The Saint unrolled some of his meager belongings on the stone floor,
and in the center of it all was a small package. The Saint picked
this up and got to his feet.

“Duke, it has been seldom that I have had to stoop to their use, but
when I am forced to such an extremity they never fail.”

“Meaning what?” smiled Duke.

The Saint unrolled the small package and held in his hand two halves
of a walnut; empty of all meat, and polished to a mahogany finish. In
one of the halves was a polished black object, about the size of a
garden pea.

“The tools of a cheap gambler,” said the Saint, studying Duke’s
dubious expression. “Yet one must be dexterous and have the courage
of his calling.”

“Where does the game come in?” asked Duke.

The Saint knelt down on a blanket, smoothed it out and placed the
two shells open side down. He slipped the black pea under one of the
shells, and with a rapid twist of his hand and fingers, shuffled the
shells for a moment.

“Which one is it under, Duke?” he asked.

Duke indicated the one and the Saint lifted the shell. There was no
pea under it. The Saint repeated the process slower this time, and
Duke Steele was willing to bet his neck on picking the right shell,
but he was mistaken.

“Is it under the other shell, Saint?” he asked.

“That is hardly a fair question, Duke. Just supposing I had opened
my game, and a bettor had picked the other shell. Would it be good
policy to have the pea under that shell? In our financial condition
we cannot afford to take any great chances, and I know of no smaller
chances of losing than by operating the two little walnut shells.”

Duke nodded shortly. “I reckon that’s right, Saint. Looks to me like
Sleed has this place under his thumb. I suppose he’s got every gunman
working for him, which makes it a poor place for us.”

The Saint placed the two shells in his pocket and came to the
doorway. The setting sun slanted against the expanse of Ruby Hill,
bringing out a myriad of colors, until the whole land seemed to be a
vast drop-curtain of fantastic shades. The voices of men drifted down
to them as clear cut as the tinkling of bells. The rasp of a pick,
the clank of hammer on steel seemed to come from the air above them
and at no great distance.

And like the dimming of a great light the sun moved its rays swiftly
up the side of the mountain, leaving in its track a misty softness,
almost as blue as moonlight. Blast after blast seemed to jar the
world, as the last shots of the afternoon were fired. A few moments
later, like ants coming from their burrows, the men came from their
tunnels and down the steep hillside, while from Sunshine Alley the
supper fires sent up long, straight streamers of smoke to signal them
home.

“Men will always toil,” said the Saint, as though talking to himself.
“Toil day after day until their span of life is done, and after them
their sons will take up the toil and carry it on. And what does it
all mean? Will the work that these men are doing amount to anything
in the final scheme of things? Will the sweat of their brows and the
callouses on their hands mean anything?”

“Is there a reason for things, I wonder, Duke?” He turned and put his
hand on Steele’s shoulder. “I have no conscience, no morals. I have
killed, like the wolf kills, and yet I have no fear of death--only
wonder.

“I have studied men from the frozen North to the tropics. I know
their different breeds, languages, customs. I have seen a Cree chief
die, and I have seen the passing of a Yaqui brave. I have seen the
mystery of the unknown come into the eyes of a learned man, and I
have held the wrist of a dying degenerate. They all die alike, Duke.
Never have I seen a man who did not fight against the death, and I
have never seen one pass into the borderland with a smile of welcome.
Always that mystery.

“Sometimes I wonder if death is a punishment. The fear of death is
punishment to most men, no matter who they are. A minister of the
Gospel fights against the hand of death as strongly as the worst
sinner ever bred, and why? The hereafter is a mystery--life is just
as great a mystery.”

Duke nodded, solemnly. “I reckon you’re right, Saint. I kinda feel
sorry for Sleed’s girl.”

The Saint looked down at the rocky floor and smiled in his great
beard.

“Life is no mystery to youth, and you are only thirty years of age,
Duke. But don’t feel sorry for Sleed’s girl. In the first place, she
is Sleed’s girl; in the second place, you are Duke Steele.”

Duke swung away from the doorway and looked up the hill toward the
town. He turned and looked at the Saint.

“I--I reckon you’re right, Saint. I kinda forgot.”




                                 IV


“It can’t be beat, friends. The more you put down, the less you take
up. Never buck another man’s game, because it was not invented to
lose money for its owner. The gent bets five that he can pick the
right shell.

“One at a time, gents. This is a one man game, unless you both want
to bet on the same shell. Empty again, gents. Where’s the next man
who is foolish enough to think he can beat a sure-thing game?”

The Saint’s voice boomed softly as he pocketed the bet and slowly
moved the two walnut shells. The yellow light from the Silver Bar
windows lit up his white hair and white beard, as he lifted himself
to his full height and studied the crowd in the street.

The Saint had secured a small, rough table, which he had placed in
the street, using the lights from the saloon to illuminate his game.
A big moon, peeping over Ruby Hill, lit up the street in a soft blue
haze, broken by the blocky shadows of the rough buildings, and shot
here and there by the yellow lights from oil lamp or candle.

The narrow street was thronged with people, for Sunshine Alley moved
to the main street at night. Money was plentiful, and the toilers
threw it away, living only in the present.

The shell game was new to Calico, and Calico was anxious to welcome
something new. Men jostled each other for a chance to place a bet;
while the Saint’s voice boomed a warning to each and all.

“It can’t be beat, brother. The hand is quicker than the eye. Another
empty shell.”

“Don’t nobody ever win?” asked a miner.

“Nobody, brother. Again I say to you all, it can’t be beaten.”

The crowd laughed. It was unusual for a game-keeper to declare that
no one can beat his game. The Saint was deadly serious, and this
amused the crowd. Another man, who had watched several bets swept
from the table, moved in and tossed several gold pieces beside the
shells.

“Pick up your money, friend,” urged the Saint. “You can’t win. Might
as well toss your money into the dust and walk away from it. All
right, if you insist. Thank you for the present.”

The man turned away and went toward the saloon door. Duke Steele had
been watching the game and now he moved in closer to the Saint, who
dug into his pocket and handed Duke a fistful of money.

“Take a spin at the wheel, son. I don’t want to take all of Silver
Sleed’s business away from him.”

“I reckon Sleed can stand it better than we can,” laughed a miner,
who had donated liberally to the elusive black pea.

Duke moved out of the crowd and started for the saloon door, when he
came face to face with Sleed’s Luck. The girl was standing on the
raised step of the saloon watching the crowd around the Saint, but
now she looked straight at Duke, who removed his sombrero slowly. He
wanted to speak to her, but turned and started on into the Silver
Bar, realizing that he had never met her.

“Wait,” she said softly, and he stopped. Loper came out of the door
and walked to the edge of the steps, looking toward the crowd in the
street.

“You wanted to speak to me?” asked Duke.

“Yes, I want to speak to you--about--him.” She motioned toward the
Saint as she spoke.

“My pardner?” queried Duke.

“Yes. I--I heard him at the graveyard today. Is he a preacher?”

“He can preach,” said Duke slowly.

“He has been educated,” said the girl, as though talking to herself.
“He must know a lot of things.”

“Yes’m, he sure does,” nodded Duke, and might have added that the
Saint would have been hanged many times for divulging even a part of
what he knew.

“I wonder if I could talk to him,” she said quickly. “Not
tonight--tomorrow--maybe.”

“Yes’m, I reckon yuh could. We’re livin’ where Preacher Bill used to
live.”

Luck nodded. “I saw you there. Preacher Bill was my friend. What is
his name?” She motioned toward the Saint.

“Le Saint.”

“Le Saint,” she said softly. “I thought of him that way when I saw
him at the graveyard. My father let Preacher Bill teach me things,
and I wonder--my father is down at Cactus City tonight.”

“You’ve lived here a long time?” asked Duke.

“Two years.”

“Mighty long time to live here,” observed Duke.

Luck nodded slowly. “A long time--yes. Nothing but heat in the day
and this--” She gave a weary gesture toward the street--“at night. I
have lived in the North, where the mountains are big and cool; where
there are big trees and rivers. It is never cool here. At times it is
a dreary cold--then the heat.”

Duke nodded and looked up at the moon, hanging like a great ball
only a short distance above the hill. Suddenly an altercation started
across the street beyond the crowd around the Saint. A babble of
voices, a curse, shrilled in a woman’s voice--a shot.

Duke turned quickly to Luck, but she had disappeared in the crowd.
A man elbowed his way across the street, laughing as he reached the
door, and spoke to Loper.

“Woman fer a change, Loper. ‘Tejon Mary’ tried to knife a feller, but
he was lookin’ fer it and shot her.”

“’S time somebody stopped her,” grunted Loper. “She was loco. Sleed
was goin’ t’ ship her out, anyway.”

The crowd around the shell game began to scatter and look for another
diversion. Duke went out to the Saint, whose pockets were bulging
with money.

“Game is closed,” said the Saint, putting the shells in his pocket
and picking up the table, “and again we have a stake.”

He placed the table in the alleyway between the Silver Bar and the
adjoining building.

“I was surprised not to have Silver Sleed try to stop my game,” said
the Saint, as he joined Duke.

“He’s in Cactus City tonight, Saint. I had a talk with his daughter.”

“Sleed’s Luck?”

“Yeah.”

“Son, it is none of my business--” began the Saint, but Duke stopped
him, and the Saint listened closely while Duke told him what the girl
had said.

He shook his white beard slowly when Duke finished.

“I reckon,” said Duke slowly, “I reckon you’ve just about got to
start in where Preacher Bill left off.”

“Tomorrow,” mused the Saint. “Tonight I would refuse to consider it;
tomorrow is another day. A man is a fool to declare his intentions
more than one minute into the future. Let us procure food, Duke
Steele, after that we will sleep. It has been a long day.”

From within the saloon came the squeak of a fiddle, the tinpanny
rattle of a piano, the scrape of boots. The dance had begun. Several
men were going down the street, carrying a blanketed figure which had
been Tejon Mary--who was loco. From far out in the barren hills a
coyote yapped dismally.

Sleed came back from Cactus City the next day; came back like a
sore-headed grizzly looking for trouble. He had drunk heavily, played
poker all night, and the heat of the day had ground his temper to a
razor edge.

Men kept away from Silver Sleed when he was in this humor, but he
soon heard of the shell game, which had held the attention of the
crowd the night before, and his face purpled with rage. He cursed
everyone in sight and sent for Loper, who was almost as sore-headed
as his master.

Sleed took him to the rear of the room, sat him down at a table and
demanded an explanation.

“How could I stop him?” demanded Loper. “I ain’t Sleed. The crowd
liked his game, ’cause he told ’em all that it can’t be beat.”

“How much did he win?” growled Sleed.

“I dunno. Prob’ly about two hundred dollars. Tejon Mary got shot, and
that kinda busted up the crowd.”

Sleed leaned back and licked the edge of a frayed cigar, while he
waited for Loper to explain more.

“I seen Luck talkin’ to the other fellow.”

Sleed snapped the cigar aside and leaned across the table.

“Luck was talkin’ to this old man’s pardner?”

“Yeah.”

“What about?”

“I dunno all they talked about, Sleed. I didn’t want to move in too
close, but I know she was askin’ him about the old man.”

“About the old man,” parroted Sleed. “What did she want to know about
him?”

“I dunno.”

“You dunno,” mimicked Sleed. “Is there anythin’ you do know? Wasn’t
your ears workin’?”

“I told yuh I didn’t want to move in close, Sleed. I heard some of it
and----”

“Oh, you heard some of it, did yuh?” Sleed got ponderously to his
feet and leaned both hands on the table, as he snarled down at
Loper. “You heard some of it, but you don’t know what they talked
about.”

Loper licked his lips and wished that the interview was over.

“Luck asked him what the old man’s name was and----”

“What was it?” snapped Sleed.

“Le Saint.”

Silver Sleed stared down at Loper; stared curiously, vacantly. He
lifted one hand and brushed it across his lips, while his fixed gaze
seemed to look through Loper and beyond. Loper shifted nervously, but
Sleed continued to stare.

Suddenly he jerked, like a man awaking from sleep, and sat down
slowly in a chair.

“Le Saint,” he muttered softly.

“Funny first name,” said Loper slowly. “Paget, I think he called it.
Must be a furriner.”

Silver Sleed did not seem to hear him.

“I dunno what the other feller’s name is, but he sure looks like he
could take care of himself. Packs a gun that looks like it had been
used a-plenty; and he’s got the walk of a cat. The old man’s gun
ain’t no ornyment either. Mebbe he’s a preacher--I dunno.”

Sleed continued to stare at the table-top.

“Want me to pack a talk to him?” asked Loper. “I can tell him to put
out of here, or that he can’t run no game in Calico.”

“No.” Sleed shook his head slowly and leaned closer to Loper. “Do yuh
know anythin’ about that shell game?”

“Only that it can’t be beat.”

“Of course it can’t,” admitted Sleed hoarsely. “That pea ain’t under
either shell. Suppose that you bet a lot of money on the pea bein’
under one of them shells, and it wasn’t there, and yuh grabbed the
other one and found it empty?” Sleed grinned wolfishly. “What would
yuh do, Loper?”

“That’s it, eh?” grunted Loper. “I reckon I’d take my money back.”

“Which might start trouble.”

“Thasall right,” grunted Loper. “I’d be lookin’ for trouble.”

Sleed got to his feet and jerked his head toward the bar, as an
invitation to have a drink.

“Let this man set up his game tonight, if he wants to. I reckon you
know what to do, Loper.”

Loper nodded. “Uh-huh. But have somebody watchin’ this other feller,
Sleed; he’s dangerous, y’betcha.”

“Some of the boys will take care of him. Maybe I’ll watch him myself.”

Sleed spilled his liquor in the pouring, but filled his glass to the
brim, while Loper wondered what had happened to Steed’s iron nerve.
He wondered if his boss were losing his nerve, or if it were only the
effects of too much liquor and loss of sleep.

“Got any more orders for today?” asked Loper.

Sleed shook his head, splashing the liquor from his glass into his
beard. Then he tossed the half-empty glass over the bar and walked
out of the door.

“Guess that whisky don’t set well on his stummick today,” observed
the bartender, kicking the broken glass aside.

“Somethin’ don’t,” admitted Loper seriously.

“He’s drinkin’ too much, I reckon.”

“You better mention it to him,” grinned Loper. “He’s in good shape
for a temp’rance lecture right now.”

“’F he ever gets snakes----”

“It’ll be hell on the snakes,” finished Loper.




                                  V


Long strings of mules, driven with a jerk-line, and hauling heavy,
clumsy ore wagons, drifted out of Sunshine Alley, hauling great loads
of silver ore to the mills at Cactus City, fifteen miles away. It
was a hard journey across the desert to Cactus City, but water was
necessary for the handling of the ore--and Calico had none. Many of
the wagons brought back great casks of water to supply Calico. There
was no ice. The cool of the evening lowered the temperature of the
water a trifle, but a cold drink was unknown in Calico town in summer.

Duke Steele and the Saint had stocked their larder from one of the
stores and had secured several badly-needed blankets. A passing
wagon had sold them a small cask of water at a large price, but they
were willing to pay. The burro had joined forces with several more
of its kind, which were trying to eke out a living in the Alley
by devouring anything and everything from an old newspaper to a
much-boiled bone. At times, as though by signal, they would all bray
together, their raucous voices echoing brazenly from the cliffs.

Mica Cates came down the road and stopped at sight of Duke and the
Saint.

“They took Ault and Tejon Mary to Cactus City,” he announced. “Ault
had some friends in Cactus, and Sleed didn’t want Mary buried here.”
Cates laughed and added, “Mebbe Sleed was afraid Mary’s ghost might
not be welcome among so many good ones.”

“Is Cactus City any better than Calico?” asked Duke.

“Better morals,” nodded Mica. “They don’t have a killin’ down
there more’n once a week. You stay here and you’ll find a-plenty
of funerals to work on. Ain’t no money in it as far as I can see,
but Preacher Bill had a system. He orated at funerals fer nothin’
quite a while, and one day he whittled out a cross and fastened it
to a headstone. She looked kinda pious. A gambler, who was religious
as hell, saw him put up this here cross, so the gambler takes up a
collection fer old Bill. I reckon he got a hundred dollars fer him,
and after that old Bill packs a cross with him all the time and hopes
for a killin’.”

Cates grinned and went on up the road. He was like a daily paper to
Calico, and spent most of his time retailing news, picking up new
items at each stop and telling hearsay as personal experience.

Duke Steele turned from watching Cates and saw Luck coming slowly
down the trail toward their adobe. The Saint glanced up at the girl
and back at Duke, who was smiling at her. She came shyly up to them
and Duke introduced her to the Saint. She was even prettier in the
harsh light of day than in the dim lights of the night before.

“I--I wanted to talk to you,” she faltered, looking at the Saint. She
traced a pattern with her toe in the sand and seemed undecided just
what else to say.

“I think I understand,” nodded the Saint. “You want to learn and you
think I am capable of teaching you. Is that it?”

“Yes,” eagerly. “Preacher Bill taught me--some. But he’s gone
now--and I--I wondered. He wasn’t a good man like you, but he wanted
to help me. You see, I have never been to a regular school.”

The Saint turned his head slowly and looked at Duke Steele. Somehow
it did not seem funny to them. The Saint turned back to her and
said, “And why do you think I am better than Preacher Bill?”

“I don’t know,” she admitted softly, “I don’t know how I know you
are--but I do. Preacher Bill had a Bible, with pictures in it, and
you look like one of them. Preacher Bill said it was the picture of a
saint.”

The Saint lifted his head and stared up the Alley, shutting his eyes
against the glare of the reflected light, while the girl watched him
eagerly. He turned and looked at her.

“Why don’t your father send you where there are schools? He can
afford it.”

Luck shook her head.

“Preacher Bill wanted him to send me away, but he only laughs and
says he can’t afford to lose his luck. He says I bring him luck. I
guess he believes this. He talks about it so much that nobody ever
calls me Nola any more.”

“Where is your mother, child?” asked the Saint.

Luck shook her head.

“I don’t know. Dad never talks about her, and when I ask him he gets
angry. I don’t remember her. I remember that we lived in the North,
where it gets cold, and where there are big mountains. Since then we
have traveled all over the country--Dad and I.”

“You ain’t had much of life, that’s a cinch,” muttered Duke. “Feller
hadn’t ought to drag a girl over the country like that. Bad enough
for a boy.”

Luck shut her lips tightly for a moment, and then, “I guess I can
stand it. Dad says he is going to get me some books. Ace Ault wanted
to get me some, but Dad put a damper on that idea. Dad didn’t like
Ace.”

“Perhaps your dad won’t like me,” suggested the Saint.

“Well--” Luck hesitated a moment, “I’ll tell him about you, and--will
you teach me, if he don’t mind?”

The Saint looked quizzically at her, and his eyes shifted to a
far-away look, as though he were undecided. Then he nodded.

“Yes, child--if he don’t mind.”

Luck turned quickly and ran up the trail, as though she was going
to lose no time in finding out. Duke smiled after her and looked at
the Saint, who was staring down at the ground, his hands clenched at
his sides. The face of a saint was gone now, and in its stead was
the grinning snarl of an old wolf. He lifted his face and looked at
Duke Steele, who was staring at the change in the old man’s face and
manner.

“Duke Steele--” the Saint’s voice was thin, almost a whine--“I’ve
lived to kill--kill, do you hear me? Now, I’ve promised--God, why did
I----?”

He swung his head as though in pain, and walked away. Duke watched
him going slowly down the road, his shoulders hunched, as though the
weight of the world rested on his back.

Whom did he live to kill? Why did his promise to Luck change his
whole being? Duke frowned and tried to gather some reason for the old
man’s feelings, but in vain. The Saint left the road and climbed the
hill to a pinnacle of rock, where he sat and stared down the canyon,
chin in hands, like a great, white-headed eagle watching for its prey.

It was an hour later that the Saint came back. He seemed older,
whiter and very tired. Duke made no mention of what had passed
between them, and the Saint did not open the subject. He sat down in
the doorway and examined his revolver--an old single-action Colt .45,
scarred and polished from much usage. His long, lean fingers seemed
to caress the old gun lovingly. There were no notches on the butt of
this old gun, but Duke Steele knew that its muzzle had spouted death
many times.

Suddenly Duke spoke.

“Saint, what made you old before your time?”

“Old? Before--my--time?” The Saint turned his head and looked at Duke.

“Uh-huh. You ain’t over fifty, are yuh? You ain’t got no right to
wear long white hair and whiskers and make folks think you’re as old
as the hills.”

The Saint ran his hand under his beard and lifted it in range of his
eyes. For several moments he peered at it, as though he had never
seen it before.

“Duke, what would I look like without this beard?”

“I ain’t got the slightest idea, Saint. It sure does cover your face
and head.”

“And that,” said Saint slowly, “is your answer, son.”




                                 VI


Luck found her father at home asleep, but her news was of such
importance that she awoke him. He snarled an answer to her call
before he realized who had called him.

“I’ve got a new teacher,” she announced, when she had recovered from
the effects of his snarling answer.

“Teacher, eh? Who?”

“The old man, with the white beard--Le Saint.”

“Le--” Sleed sat up on the bed and stared at her.

Luck nodded. “Le Saint. He looks like one of the old men in the
Bible. He is going to teach me, if you will let him.”

Sleed stared down at the floor, with unseeing eyes, while Luck’s
words seemed to run in a meaningless jumble through his mind.

“We need a preacher here,” said Luck softly, “and he is very good and
kind. Will you let him teach me, Daddy?”

Sleed roused from his stupor and got heavily to his feet.

“Don’t you feel good?” asked Luck. “Your face is so white and your
eyes----”

“No, I’m all right!” grunted Sleed thickly. “I--I lost a lot of
sleep, and this blasted heat--” He wiped his brow with the sleeve of
his shirt.

“Are we going to live here always?” asked Luck.

“Always?” Sleed tried to smile. “Always is a long time, Luck.”

Sleed picked up his hat and started for the door, but Luck took him
by the arm.

“You did not say about my teacher.”

Sleed did not look at her as he said, “When is he goin’ to start
teachin’, Luck?”

“Tomorrow,” eagerly.

“Oh, tomorrow. I reckon that’ll be all right--tomorrow.”

Sleed went out of the door and Luck watched him go down the rocky
trail to the street, but he did not turn and wave at her as he
usually did.

Suddenly he stopped, turned and came slowly back up the trail to the
doorway.

“Luck, I wish you’d stay off the street tonight,” he said.

“Why?” she asked. It was the first time he had ever requested her to
keep away from the street.

“I’m afraid yuh might get hurt. There’s a bunch comin’ up from Cactus
City tonight, and they might get rough. I can’t afford to have
anything happen to my Luck.”

“They all know me,” said Luck quickly. “Nothing will harm me.”

Sleed shook his head.

“I--I dunno about that, Luck. If trouble started, nobody knows where
bullets will hit.”

Luck brushed the hair away from her eyes and glanced down toward the
quiet street.

“Everybody says that you own Calico, Dad. If you do, why don’t you
stop the trouble? Does there have to be somebody killed every day?
Isn’t there some way to stop men from fighting and killing each
other?”

Silver Sleed shook his head.

“No, I don’t reckon there is, not now. Maybe some day the wolf blood
will thin out, I dunno.”

And without gaining Luck’s promise to keep off the street that
night, Sleed turned and went back down the trail. Luck watched him
disappear and turned to see Mica Cates coming down past the house, on
his way from the Ruby Hill trail.

He took off his hat and mopped his brow.

“Howdy, Miss Luck. Hot, ain’t it? I been circ’latin’ around quite
a bit. Wes Marks jist run into a two-inch vein of durned-near pure
silver. Could almost mint dollars out of the raw stuff. Two miners
from the Nola had a devil of a fight and one’s got a busted head.

“Didja notice how many buzzards has been floatin’ around t’day?
Been a whole flock of ’em circlin’ Calico fer two hours. That old
white-bearded hombre was settin’ on a rock fer a long time, like he
was thinkin’ a heap, and then I seen him oilin’ his six-gun. Mebbe
he’s a preacher; I dunno.”

Mica Cates stopped for breath and glanced up at the sky, where a
flock of buzzards circled slowly, and without visible effort. Cates
lowered his eyes and glanced at Luck.

“’S hard to fool a buzzard,” he said, and went on down the trail. He
had fulfilled his duty and added a prophecy to boot.

Luck’s eyes followed the buzzards for a while, as they circled slowly
on an even plane, as though suspended by invisible wires, and went
back into the house. There was something ominous in the atmosphere,
and Luck had not given her word to keep off the street.

Loper had passed the word to Bill Fane and “Pecos” Mendez as to
what Silver Sleed expected, and the three of them met in the Silver
Bar saloon. Fane was a tall, cadaverous person, with a crooked
mouth, which gave him a perpetual leer. Mendez was a half-breed,
whose mentality was hardly up to par, but whose pistol ability and
cold-blooded nerve were seldom equaled.

“We tak’ care of de yong man, eh?” queried Mendez, his voice like the
purring of a cat. “Dat be easy, eh, Beel?”

Fane nodded absently.

“No killin’ is easy,” objected Loper. “This young man packs a gun
like he knowed how to use it, and he’s got a face that backs up the
looks of his gun. You two better figure that this ain’t goin’t’ be no
picnic.”

“What does Sleed want ’em killed fer?” asked Fane.

“’Cause he don’t ’low nobody to cut in on his gamblin’ in Calico,”
replied Loper.

“He ain’t never told ’em they can’t run a game here, has he?”

“That’s none of your business--nor mine,” said Loper. “Silver Sleed
pays yuh, don’t he?”

“Yeah,” admitted Fane slowly, “he pays. But I’m gittin’ tired of
bein’ hired to shoot folks. I ain’t no danged milk eater, Loper, but
I believe in lettin’ a man have a even break.”

“You better not let Sleed hear yuh talk thataway,” cautioned Loper.
“He ain’t got no use for that kind of arguments.”

Fane grinned crookedly and put his hand on Loper’s arm.

“Loper, who are we to let Silver Sleed hire us to do his dirty work?
Why are we afraid of him? What did he ever do to make us afraid of
him? Either one of us could bump him off with a gun. Are we afraid of
his damn money?

“I got to lookin’ him over today and wonderin’ why we’re afraid to
speak out loud about him. You tell me not to let him hear me talk
thataway. Why should I be any more afraid to let him hear it than you
and Mendez?”

Loper drew away from Fane, but the question had found root in his
brain.

“Money,” said Mendez, “Just money. I jus’ so good as Sleed, but Sleed
has de money. Man got to live.”

“I reckon that’s it,” nodded Loper. “I never thought much about it
before, Bill. I reckon any of us could more than hold his own against
Sleed in a gun-fight, but he’s got the money. Anyway, I told him we’d
take care of this for him.”

The three of them strolled to the doorway. Far out on the desert
was a strip of gold, marking the last of the sunset, but Calico was
already hazy with the evening light. The Saint and Duke Steele came
out of the Alley and into the street, walking slowly toward the
Silver Bar saloon.

“Them is the ones,” grunted Loper. “I dunno what Sleed wants done in
case they don’t open that game.”

“He’s doin’ this ’cause he wants to stop ’em from gamblin’, ain’t
he?” queried Fane. Loper nodded.

Mica Cates came thumping down the street and up to the saloon door,
where he turned and looked up at the sky. He shaded his eyes for a
moment and turned to the three men.

“Did yuh notice how the buzzards been hangin’ around here all day?”

“What’s that got to do with us?” grunted Loper.

“I dunno,” admitted Cates. “I never said who it concerned. They’ve
circled Calico all day, and sometimes they come down awful low, with
their wattled heads turnin’ from side to side--kinda lookin’.” Cates
shook his head and started into the saloon, but stopped and glanced
at the sky again.

“’S hard to fool a buzzard, y’betcha.”

“Croakin’ old pup,” growled Loper, and the three of them went back
into the saloon.

The Saint secured his little table again and set it up in the street.
Several dogs went out and investigated, and started a fight, as
though there was a serious difference of opinion over the reasons for
a table in the street.

Duke Steele watched the Saint with misgivings. He was sure that
Silver Sleed would object strenuously to such a proceeding, but the
Saint gave no heed to his warnings. For the last hour the Saint had
seemed another person; entirely different from the philosophical
old man. His mop of white hair seemed to lift aggressively, and the
hawk-like nose seemed more like an eagle’s beak.

He had put his extra cartridges in his pocket and shoved his
six-shooter inside the waistband of his pants, where he could get it
without reaching under his coat. Duke had noted these preparations
silently, but had looked to his own gun and ammunition. He was
willing to follow the Saint’s lead and he wanted to be prepared for
anything.

Duke went into the saloon and sat down at a poker table, where Sleed
was dealing a game of stud. Sleed studied Duke from under the brim of
his hat, as he slid a stack of chips across the table to him.

“The limit?” queried Duke.

“The sky,” replied Sleed.

The Saint had split his winnings with Duke, and now Duke shoved the
rest of the bills over to Sleed, taking chips in exchange. It was a
small betting game, and the pots were uninteresting. Sleed covered a
yawn with his hand, and Duke nodded, as though at a spoken word.

Duke smiled grimly as Sleed dealt the first card to each man. He
shoved in part of a stack of chips, and Sleed covered the bet,
wondering why Duke made such a bet on a hole-card. The two miners
passed, leaving Sleed and Duke to fight it out. Duke drew a king and
Sleed a jack.

“King-high bets,” intoned Sleed.

Duke shoved in all of his chips. Sleed glanced sharply at him, but
covered the bet, and dealt the rest of the hand. The result showed a
pair of kings for Duke and a pair of jacks for Sleed.

The next deal doubled Duke’s money again, and he bet half of it on
his hole-card. Again he won. Sleed shifted nervously in his chair,
while miners crowded in around to watch the play. Sleed knew that
there was no chance for a crooked play, and he trusted to luck to win.

Pot after pot went to Duke Steele, doubling his money on each hand,
until the onlookers gasped at the wonderful run of luck. Duke was
plunging; betting a fortune on his first card. And Sleed’s prestige
in the town demanded that he follow suit, although it broke him.

Sleed called for another rack of chips, new cards, whiskey, praying
that something would happen to break the devilish luck of this
hard-eyed gambler.

Another deal, and Duke bet two thousand dollars on his first card.
Sleed glanced at the bet and doubled the size of it.

“Feel it comin’ on?” queried Duke. It was the first word Duke had
spoken since he had inquired about the limit.

Sleed’s eyes narrowed at the question, but he did not reply. Duke
shoved in the extra two thousand, and with it went every chip in
front of him. Stacks of blue and red, at five and ten dollars for
each chip--a king’s ransom. Sleed licked his lips and studied the
pot.

“Your luck or mine,” said Duke softly. “You’re rich, Sleed, but are
yuh game? It’s a man-sized pot.”

From out on the street came the voice of the Saint:

“It can’t be beat, folks. The more you lay down, the less you pick
up. The hand is quicker than the eye, and this game was designed to
prove it to you. Don’t bet, unless you want to lose.”

Duke watched Sleed closely, as he stared down at the pot.

“It’s luck that wins, Sleed; and you’re losin’ your luck.”

“What do you mean?” snapped Sleed, sitting up straight in his chair.
“What do you mean?”

“She’s leavin’ you, Sleed. You know it, too. Shove in your money and
prove it with the cards. It’s luck now. I’ll show you my card.”

Duke flipped his hole-card, disclosing a deuce of hearts.

“The little thin card, Sleed. Your card must be as good as mine; but
my luck--my medicine--is stronger than yours. Your luck has left you.”

“Like hell it has!” croaked Sleed, and turned his card, the ace of
spades, face up on the table. Nervously he shoved in chips, calling
for another rack to match Duke’s bet.

“Deal ’em face-up,” said Duke softly. “Give the crowd a little
entertainment, Sleed.”

“Another empty shell,” came the Saint’s voice. “This is not a luck
game, folks; it is a cinch for the dealer.”

Sleed’s hand shook as he started to deal. Duke got an ace, while
Sleed’s card showed the five of hearts. Slowly the next two fell
to the table; a five of clubs to Duke and the deuce of diamonds to
Sleed.

“Ace, five, deuce,” said Duke softly. “Luck is laughing at you,
Sleed.”

Sleed tossed the next two, and the crowd gasped. Each man drew a king.

“Matched cards,” said Duke, laughing softly. “One more card, Sleed,
one more. This one proves that luck has left you.”

Slowly Sleed moved the top card and tossed it across at Duke. It was
the deuce of clubs, making a pair of deuces for Duke Steele. An ace,
king, or a five would win for Sleed.

“Friend, you are out of luck.” The Saint’s voice seemed to be
directed at Silver Sleed. “I told you that this game cannot be beat,
but you----”

Sleed spun his card in the air and it fell face-up on the pile of
chips.

The trey of spades!

Staring down at the card, Sleed half-slumped forward in his chair,
as he tried to estimate his loss. It was more money than he dared
estimate. He looked up at Duke, who was rolling a cigarette.

“Count the chips, Sleed,” said Duke, “and give me your I. O. U. for
it. I’ll take your count.”

Duke got to his feet and brushed the crumbs of tobacco off the folds
of his shirt, while Sleed stared up at him. His I. O. U.! Sleed’s
eyes shifted and he saw Loper looking at him inquiringly. Swiftly
Sleed counted the chips, stacking them in rows across the table.

“Forty-six thousand dollars,” he said hoarsely.

“Write it out,” said Duke indifferently.

Sleed got to his feet and walked to the bar, where he secured writing
material. Laboriously he wrote out the I. O. U. and scrawled his
signature at the bottom. Without looking at it, Duke pocketed it and
went out of the door.

Loper and Fane had moved in close to the bar, and as Duke went out of
the door, Sleed nodded to Loper and indicated for him to go ahead.
Men were talking softly about the big game, the size of Sleed’s loss,
the cold nerve of this stranger. A rumble of it came to Sleed’s ears
and he grinned behind his beard. He was sure that he would never have
to pay that I. O. U.

Voices came from the street arguing, laughing, quarreling. Sleed had
turned away, as though to go toward the back of the room, but he
swung around and walked to the door, drawn irresistibly by the drama
he knew was about to be played.




                                 VII


The Saint was standing at his little table, in the center of a crowd,
advising them not to play his game; taking their money, when they
insisted. Duke Steele had elbowed his way to a point just beyond the
Saint, and was watching the crowd.

Loper shoved men aside and stepped in front of the table, looking
curiously down at the two shells. Duke had seen Sleed signal Loper
in the saloon, and he knew that Loper was the one who had killed Ace
Ault. Loper was Sleed’s man, and this was their first move against
the Saint.

“Don’t waste your money, friend,” warned the Saint, as Loper took out
some gold. “You can’t win.”

“Can, if I pick the right shell, can’t I?”

“That’s the trick, friend, but it can’t be done.”

The Saint rolled the little black pea on the table, covered it with a
shell and shuffled the shells slowly.

“Fifty dollars,” declared Loper.

“Pick your shell,” said the Saint. “Fifty is a lot of money to give
away.”

Loper studied the shells for a moment and made his choice. The pea
was not there. With a swift movement of his hand he upset the other
shell and found it empty.

He stepped back angrily.

“That’s a crooked game!” he roared. “You just stole my money----”

Loper drew his gun as he rasped out his accusation, which was never
finished. The Saint’s hand flashed to his waist; a downward and
upward movement, so fast that it seemed to be one short snap, and
his pistol spouted fire a second before Loper shot.

Loper jerked back as though struck by a mighty blow and his bullet
sped harmlessly over the Saint’s head. For an instant the crowd was
silent. Loper had half caught his balance, but it was only an instant
before he fell forward on his face.

Into the startled crowd came Luck, running swiftly to the Saint.

“Look out, Saint!” yelled Duke. “It’s a trick to kill you.”

Another pistol thudded from nearer the saloon, and the Saint
staggered sideways from the shock of the bullet. It was Mendez
shooting from the sidewalk. Duke sprang into a cleared spot and fired
twice at Mendez, who tried to run, but seemed to collapse half-way in
the saloon door, at the feet of Silver Sleed.

The street cleared as though by magic, and Duke could see the
Saint on his hands and knees beside his little table, trying to
pull himself up. A woman screamed and a man cursed wonderingly in a
high-pitched voice.

As Duke started for the Saint, he felt a bullet yank at his shoulder,
and the crash of a gun came from behind him. He turned quickly to see
Bill Fane coming toward him. Fane shot again before Duke realized
that here was another opponent, and the bullet seared a furrow across
his cheek.

Duke’s hand swung up and he fired quickly. Fane stumbled, but came
on, trying to lift his gun, which seemed too heavy. Again Duke
fired--and again. Fane’s gun fell to the ground. He seemed to be
looking for it, searching carefully. His knees bent slowly and he
sprawled in the street.

Duke turned around. The Saint had got to his feet and was holding to
the table with both hands. Men were looking out of the saloon door,
standing far back from the doorway, as though afraid to get closer to
the street.

Loper was sprawled on his face just in front of the Saint, and had
not moved. Duke went past him and took the Saint by the arm. His
white hair and beard were covered with blood, and his eyes were
closed tightly.

“Come on, Saint,” said Duke. “Aw, this is a hell of a mess, ain’t it?
Are yuh hurt bad?”

The Saint mumbled something in his beard, but let Duke lead him off
the street, between two of the buildings. Behind them came the sound
of voices, as the people came back into the street. Duke led the
Saint around the rear of the buildings, until he struck the trail
into the Alley. His face was bleeding and a dull pain in his shoulder
apprised him of the fact that the first bullet had torn through the
flesh.

The Saint mumbled incoherent sentences, but led the way to their
shack, where he sat down on a rock and held his head in his hands.
Duke tried to examine the Saint’s injuries, but the old man shoved
him away, mumbling a curse.

Duke squinted closely at him. It was the first time he had ever heard
the Saint curse.

“You sure got hit hard, pardner,” observed Duke. “I don’t reckon yuh
never swore because yuh didn’t know how.”

From the street came the sound of voices, as though the crowd had
separated and was searching; scattered voices yelling instructions,
with one group closer than the rest. Duke reloaded his pistol and
shook the Saint’s shoulder.

“Get up, Saint! There’s men comin’, and we don’t know whether
they’re friends or not.”

But the Saint mumbled thickly and shook his head. Came a scraping
noise at the doorway, and Duke lifted his head to see Luck leaning
inside.

“Come out!” she panted excitedly. “They are coming to hang you both!
Hurry!”

Duke yanked the Saint to his feet and shoved him out of the doorway.
The silhouetted figures of men were coming over the rim of the Alley
toward them.

“Follow me!” whispered Luck. “It’s your only chance.”

The Saint mumbled thickly and tried to protest, but Duke hustled him
along in the heavy shadow of the rock ledges, while behind them came
the clamor of voices, like a pack of hounds casting for a scent.

Luck led them angling up the side of the hill, over ledges where Duke
had to fairly carry the Saint, until they came out over the rim.
Below them shone the yellow lights of the street, which seemed to be
deserted now. From down in Sunshine Alley came the faint voices of
the searchers, calling to each other; voices that echoed strangely
from that black cleft in the mountain.

Luck took them straight to her own home. The Saint sat down on
the door-step and held his head in his hands, while he began his
incoherent mumble again.

“Whose place is this?” asked Duke.

“Mine,” panted Luck. “Bring him inside.”

“Your home? Silver Sleed’s place?”

“Yes. Don’t you see it’s the only place where they won’t search?”

“But suppose they do,” argued Duke. “What will they think of you,
Miss Luck?”

“They won’t come here. Help him inside, please. They will think you
hid in the rocks tonight. I know a trail that leads around Ruby Hill
and you can go out that way into the desert. Nobody will ever think
of watching that trail.

“I’ll get your burro and the stuff from your shack. Bring him in
before some of them pass here. They may search the hill tonight.”

Duke helped the Saint to his feet and shoved him into the doorway.
Luck dropped the heavy blanket curtain over the front window and lit
some candles, while Duke guided the Saint to a chair.

The old man’s hair and beard were a clotted mass of red and white
now, and his eyes blinked painfully in the candle-light. He tried to
get to his feet, but Duke put a hand on his shoulder.

“The traps,” mumbled the Saint, “I’m going to take up the traps,
Jim.”

“What does he mean?” whispered Luck.

“Out of his head,” said Duke. “That bullet must have cracked his
skull.”

The Saint looked curiously at Duke.

“Are you from St. Pierre?” he asked.

“He don’t know you,” whispered Luck.

The Saint bowed his head for a moment and then looked back at Duke.

“Did they find her?” he whispered hoarsely. “Did they?”

“Take it easy, pardner,” soothed Duke.

“I’ll have to get yuh out of here ahead of a rope. They ain’t lookin’
for her; they’re lookin’ for us.”

“My father sent me home,” explained Luck. “I ran out of the street
when the shooting began and he grabbed me. He was very angry and made
me come home. The--the men who got shot were friends of my father.

“But I didn’t come home--then,” she continued, after a moment’s
pause. “I heard them say they were going to hang you both.”

“We’re sure obliged to yuh, Miss Luck,” said Duke slowly. “We’ll get
out of here before they find yuh out.”

Came a dull knock on the heavy door. Duke drew his gun and stepped in
closer to the wall, snuffing out one of the candles.

“I’ll open it,” he whispered, but Luck motioned him to stop.

“Who is it?” she called.

“Me--Mica Cates,” answered a muffled voice. “You paw asked me to find
out if yuh was home.”

“I’m all right,” said Luck.

“I’ll tell him. They ain’t found them fellers yet, Luck; but they’re
still huntin’. Your dad is willin’ to pay big for the man what gets
’em. Loper’s dead. Mendez and Fane are kinda bad, but mebbe they’ll
live.”

For a moment there was silence, and then Cates said, “’Member what
I said about them buzzards? It sure is hard to fool a buzzard.
G’d-night.”

Luck turned to Duke, her face white in the flickering light of the
one candle.

“My dad,” she said slowly, “is offering money for your lives.”

Duke thought of the I. O. U. in his pocket. Forty-six thousand
dollars. No wonder Silver Sleed was willing to pay well to stop
collection on that piece of paper. It would break Sleed to pay that
bet; strip him of his unearned wealth.

“I reckon your dad’s got the wrong idea of us,” said Duke slowly. He
did not want her to know why Silver Sleed wanted to kill him.

“I’ll get your burro and things,” she said, and slipped out through
the back entrance before he could stop her. The Saint lifted his
gory head and stared at her as she went past him. He started to get
up, but sank back in his chair, muttering softly, wonderingly.

He looked at Duke closely, without a sign of recognition in his eyes.

“How do yuh feel, Saint?” asked Duke.

“How do I feel?” parroted the Saint. “Why do you ask me that? Where
am I?”

“Don’t yuh remember, Saint? You’re in Silver Sleed’s home right now.”

“Sleed’s home?” The Saint got slowly out of his chair and looked
around, as though an inspection of the four walls would corroborate
his statement.

“Sleed’s home?” he repeated, as though to himself and then to Duke.
“I don’t understand--I--can’t.”

“Don’t yuh remember the shootin’ in the street? One of Sleed’s men
shot yuh, Saint; but he paid damn well for it.”

“One of Sleed’s men? What men do you mean?”

It was not the voice of the old Saint. Gone was the deep, organ-like
tone, and in its place was a harsh, rasping enunciation, toneless,
colorless.

“You take it easy, old timer,” advised Duke. “We’ll get out of here
first and talk afterwards.”

The Saint heard this indifferently, as his hand ran slowly through
his great white beard, now streaked and clotted with blood. Across
the room was a mirror in a rough frame, and his eyes traveled to
this. He staggered over to it and peered at himself for several long
moments.

He turned away and staggered against the wall, where he stared at
Duke, wide-eyed.

“Who am I?” he breathed. “My God, who am I?”

His voice was almost a scream, and his hands clutched against the
rough wall. There was no doubt in Duke’s mind but that the Saint had
gone insane from his wound.

“Easy, pardner,” soothed Duke. “You’ll remember who yuh are. Set down
and take it easy.”

“Who am I?” whined the Saint, paying no heed to Duke’s advice. “Don’t
you know whom I am?”

“Le Saint,” answered Duke.

“Yes, that’s my name--Le Saint.”

He stared at Duke for several moments, shaking his head as though in
pain or perplexity. Then he said, “I don’t know you, but your face is
familiar. Who are you?”

“Duke Steele.”

“Yes,” nodded the Saint, “that is the name, but I don’t remember you
very well. You heard what happened to me, didn’t you?” The question
was child-like in its simplicity, and the Saint smiled wistfully as
he spoke.

“What happened to you?” queried Duke.

“I thought everyone knew. The factor at Norway Lake told
everyone--I--thought.”

“Where’s Norway Lake?”

The Saint smiled and shook his head.

“I forgot that you were a stranger. It is north of here. I am a
trapper; a free trader, they call me. There were three of us on Moose
River--no, four. But there were only three of us went in there. The
baby was born that winter.

“The fur was plentiful and our catch was large. My wife--” The Saint
stopped and stared at the floor, as though unable to continue.

“It was a hard life for a woman, away from her own kind. I trusted
my partner.” The Saint’s manner seemed to change, and he cursed
witheringly in a mixture of English, French and another language,
which Duke had never heard. It seemed to relieve him, for he
continued:

“The fur was ready to take out in the spring, and my partner was to
make the voyage alone. On the day he left, I was going to take up a
few traps which had not been lifted. Somehow, my wife seemed nervous,
and I questioned her. She confessed that she was afraid of my partner.

“I laughed. My friend, it seemed a huge joke. The load of furs was
launched and my partner waved adieu. I watched him pole away and went
to my wife, laughing at her grave expression.

“‘He is gone,’ I said, ‘and anyway it is foolish of you to feel as
you do about him. Has he ever been anything except a good friend to
us?’

“‘I do not know,’ she replied, as she hugged the baby and went into
the cabin. I laughed and went on the trail. But a man’s mind is the
devil’s garden, where seeds of suspicion take root easily, and I grew
uneasy. I would go back to the little cabin and stay with my wife
until she was no longer afraid.

“I reached the cabin just in time to see my partner, who had
returned, forcing my wife into the canoe. He had come back, evidently
with the intention of stealing my wife along with the furs.

“I shouted at him as I ran down the shore, and I saw him throw my
baby bodily into the canoe with my wife, who had fainted from her
struggle. And then he shoved off from the shore, just as I reached
there, but not soon enough to escape.”

The Saint drew his hand across his eyes, as though striving to shut
out that sight.

“We fought,” he continued slowly, “fought like beasts, and I whipped
him, but just before he went down under a powerful blow he managed to
fall against the canoe and shove it into the current, where the water
gains speed for the white rapids below.”

The Saint shook his head slowly.

“I never found them--never. I forgot the man who was responsible for
my loss, and he escaped. I have sworn to kill him, my friend. The
Indians found the overturned canoe--empty.”

“For God’s sake!” breathed Duke, as the Saint bowed his head over a
loss sustained twenty years before. It seemed utterly impossible--yet
true.

“What was your partner’s name?” asked Duke.

“Martin,” replied the Saint evenly, through clenched teeth.

Duke shook his head. He knew no one by the name. He knew little about
the loss of memory, but felt sure that the bullet, which had scored
the Saint’s head, had shocked him back twenty years, and he shuddered
as he wondered what must be the Saint’s feeling when he realized that
he had lost twenty years of his life.

From below the cabin came the hoarse yelling of a man, like the
leader of a wolf-pack sounding a view hello to his comrades when he
scents the trail anew. Shouts answered him.

Suddenly the back door crashed open and Luck half-fell inside,
panting painfully.

“They know where you are!” she panted. “I got your burro and
blankets, but they found me and took them away. Someone made a guess
that you were at my house, and my father struck him down for the
suggestion, but they are coming to find out.”

“I reckon we’ll meet ’em here,” said Duke slowly, and nodded toward
the Saint.

“He’s gone crazy, Luck.”

As Luck looked toward the Saint he raised his head and looked
straight at Duke, as he said, “Who has gone crazy, Duke?”

It was the booming voice of the old Saint again. He got to his feet
and shook his head, as though to clear his befogged memory.

“They’re cornerin’ us, Saint,” said Duke, “and it kinda looks like
the end of the trail.”

“Come out this way--quick!” urged Luck, starting for the rear door,
which opened on to a rocky slope, leading on a steep grade up the
side of Ruby Hill. The Saint stumbled out of the door, with Duke
close behind him, and they went up the hill, winding their way
around the tall spires, dodging from shadow to shadow to escape
the moonlight, which lighted the world like a mighty blue-tinted,
incandescent lamp.

Behind them came the voices of the mob, the crashing of the front
door of the cabin, hollow, muffled voices, as those inside shouted
the information that their quarry had escaped from the rear.

“The tunnels!” panted Luck. “The hill is full of them.”

They stopped for a breathing spell and watched the crowd below
them climbing the hill, their voices plainly audible in the thin
atmosphere.

“They’re headin’ for the tunnels!” shouted Silver Sleed’s voice.
“We’ll get ’em now!”

Duke turned and followed Luck, climbing higher and higher over the
barren rocks, while below them came the redoubled shouts of the
crowd, as they saw the flitting figures far up on the cliffs.

“The Saint!” exclaimed Duke suddenly. “Where is he?”

Luck, panting against a rock, looked back. She and Duke were alone.
Breathlessly they scanned the world below them, and watched the crowd
coming; black figures in that ghostly light.

All danger to themselves was forgotten. What had become of the Saint?

“He’s crazy,” muttered Duke. “That bullet knocked him crazy, but he’s
my pardner and I’m going back, Luck.”

“They kill you!” panted Luck. “My father----”

But Duke Steele was going back down the hill, calling softly the
Saint’s name and Luck followed him. There was no sign of him in the
path of the coming crowd, so Duke and Luck swung wide, peering into
the shadows, until they were almost past the mob, which had not seen
them return.

“Gawd!” muttered Duke. “If we could find him now we could double back
on them.”

Suddenly the clamoring crowd went silent. It was uncanny. Duke led
the way swiftly around the base of a broken ledge and they found
themselves just at the rear of the halted mob, a mob as silent as the
dead.

Just beyond and above them stood the Saint, a huge figure,
back-lighted in the moonlight until it seemed that a halo encircled
his great, white head. Silently, like a prophet of old; he reared
his huge bulk in their path, as though rebuking them for their evil
actions.

Duke caught his breath. It was so unreal, weird.

“Kill him!” grunted Silver Sleed’s voice, but the crowd did not move.
It was as though the Saint held a strange power over them. Duke
gripped his gun tightly and waited. There was nothing he could do to
help the Saint now.

Then, slowly, the Saint began his descent toward the crowd, which
parted to let him through. Miners, hardened gamblers, killers, the
riff-raff of the new West, drew aside in wonderment or fear of this
man.

Slowly he came among them, peering into their faces, as though
seeking someone, while they silently stared at him.

“Blood!” muttered Mica Cates, who was near Duke and the girl. “Blood
and buzzards.”

Suddenly the Saint stopped. He was looking straight at Silver Sleed
now, and Silver Sleed’s right hand held a cocked pistol at his hip,
tensed, ready to fire. Then the Saint spoke:

“The trail ends here, Sleed Martin. It has been full of shadows,
and I have only a memory--just a memory. I want you, whom men call
Silver Sleed. It may only be a nightmare, Martin, but it is real to
me--now!”

As the Saint spoke he sprang, like a tiger. Silver Sleed fired, but
his bullet smashed into the cliff behind the Saint, and before he
could shoot again, the Saint was upon him.

Both of them were giant men, and they crashed together like two
grizzlies, while the crowd backed away to give them room, knowing
nothing of the reasons for the fight. Luck had started ahead, but
Duke drew her back against the rock.

“My God, he’s stronger than Sleed!” gasped a man. “Look at him, will
yuh?”

The rest of the crowd watched silently the stranger battle. Silver
Sleed was battling for his life while the old Saint, insane with the
stored-up hate of years, and with the super-human strength of a
madman, battered and crushed Silver Sleed without mercy.

The thudding of mighty blows, the crash of clinches, scraping of feet
on the barren rock; but no sound from the mob. For all the movement
about them, they might as well have been fighting alone on the
mountain top.

Suddenly they drew apart, only to crash together again, but this time
Silver Sleed went down, striking the back of his head against the
rock. The Saint stood over him, hunched, with arms bent, like the
wings of an eagle about to strike, then his arms swept down around
Silver Sleed and swung up, with Sleed in his arms. With a mighty
heave he swung the unconscious man across his shoulder, turned and
lumbered away around the side of the cliffs.

“Stop him!” screamed a man.

“Stop him!” echoed the crowd, suddenly realizing that they had
voices. After him they went, but the chase was slow. It was only a
narrow trail, which broke off to the sharp cliffs below it. Beyond
them went the Saint, with the sure-footedness of a mountain goat,
traveling at a pace that none dared imitate.

Duke and Luck followed closely. Duke had forgotten that he was also
being hunted by the crowd, and it is doubtful if any of the crowd
knew or cared about him now.

“He’s got to go into the Silver Shell tunnel!” yelled a man. “That’s
the end of the trail.”

Beyond this tunnel was a wide crevice in the cliffs, which extended
back into the mountain. It was impossible to go beyond the tunnel,
either up or down. The Saint had trapped himself. Stumbling along
this trail came the crowd, or as many as dared to trust this narrow
pathway in the tricky moonlight until they reached the wide ledge
which constituted the mouth of the Silver Shell.

“He’s bottled up,” cried a miner, “but it ain’t goin’ to help Sleed
none!”

“There’s a cross-cut tunnel into the Kalura,” panted a newcomer.
“He’ll find that. Watch the mouth of the Kalura, I tell yuh!”

The crowd ran back along the trail, until they could look up and
beyond the crevice, where the Kalura workings opened out onto a much
higher ledge. From this spot it was five hundred feet straight down
into Sunshine Alley.

A man cocked his rifle and leaned back against the rocky wall, but
another jerked the gun away from him.

“You fool! Killin’ the old man won’t save Sleed, and you can’t be
sure in this light.”

Suddenly two figures appeared on this ledge, silhouetted against the
moon. Sleed had recovered from his injury and was fighting again.
They clashed together, blending into one figure. Then the Saint
picked Sleed up in his arms, balanced him for a second, and hurled
him far out over the abyss.

The man with the rifle dropped it and flung his hands to his eyes,
and a hoarse gasp went up from the crowd as Sleed’s body faded out
into the depths, falling like a plummet.

The Saint was standing near the edge of the rock, with his arms high
above his head as he gazed into space. Then his laughter came down to
them, the choking cackle of a maniac. It was the first time that Duke
Steele had ever heard the Saint laugh aloud.

Luck was leaning back against the rock, her face as white as snow and
with her eyes shut. For a moment Duke thought she had fainted, but
her eyes opened and she stared back at the old Saint atop the ledge,
still cackling in his glee.

As he lowered his arms and turned, as though to go back into the
tunnel, he slipped, fell sidewise, clawing at the rock, which slid
away with him. For a moment he seemed to hang, half-off the cliff,
but the edge of the rock seemed to crumble away under his weight, and
he shot sidewise into space to join Silver Sleed.

Duke had started forward, as though to try and help the Saint, and
when he turned back, Luck was gone. Silently the crowd filed past
him, wordless from the tragedy they had just seen, forgetting that he
was one of the men they had been hunting.

Duke gazed for a long time into the silvered depths of the Alley.
From far away came the eerie, wailing cry of a desert coyote. Duke
shook his head. Perhaps it was better for the Saint. Memory had only
half returned to him; the balancing point which might mean insanity.
He had achieved his purpose after twenty years; twenty years of
another personality, which urged him on to hunt down the man who had
ruined his life. Suddenly Duke realized that Luck was the daughter of
the Saint. She had been the lost baby. Sleed was Sleed Martin, the
trapping partner of the Saint.

“Twenty years another person,” muttered Duke. “My Gawd! No wonder he
looked in that glass and asked me who he was!”

Duke turned and went slowly down the hill toward Sleed’s cabin.
A gray burro crossed into the moonlight; Duke’s burro. It was
half-packed and dragging a blanket. The pack-sacks were still intact,
half-filled with food, and a small keg of water was tied between the
saddle-posts. Luck had made good as far as she was able.

Duke caught the animal and led it down the hill behind him. He did
not know where he was going now. Near the corner of Sleed’s home he
stopped. Someone was talking, and Duke recognized Mica Cates’s voice.
Duke edged in closer.

Luck was sitting on the rough steps, with her head buried in her
hands, while Mica Cates and another man stood near her.

“It shore was hard luck,” said Mica softly, “but I knowed somethin’
was due to happen.”

“But why?” sobbed Luck. “Why did that man do it?”

“Crazy,” grunted Mica.

“He called him Martin. My daddy’s name was Sleed.”

“He wa’n’t responsible, Luck,” said the other man. “He was jist
plumb crazy, thasall.”

“Don’t yuh worry,” soothed Cates. “Calico’ll take care of yuh. Why,
yo’re rich, Luck. Everythin’ yore dad had belongs to you. You can
git eddicated and have silk dresses, and--” Mica Cates seemed to
expand--“and you won’t have t’ live in Calico.”

“What become of that other feller?” queried the other man. “I reckon
we plum forgot him. Sleed wanted him especially. I wonder if he
wasn’t crazy, too?”

Luck looked up quickly.

“Don’t say that. He--he wasn’t crazy.”

Duke turned away and picked up the lead-rope of his burro, and went
softly around the house and down past the lighted town, which was
strangely silent for Calico.

A few miles out on the desert he stopped and looked back at the
lights of Calico, which were now only a tiny flicker against the
dead black of the hills. Slowly he drew out a folded paper from his
pocket and looked at the scrawl thereon:

               _I owe you forty-six thousand dollars._
                             $46,000.00

                                                      _Silver Sleed._

Duke glanced back at Calico as he slowly tore the paper into bits
and scattered them to the wind. He picked up the lead-rope and spoke
softly to the burro.

“One man wondered if I was crazy, and she denied it. Forty-six
thousand dollars. I wonder which was right?”

And he turned and went into the misty spaces of the desert--alone.




      *      *      *      *      *      *




Transcriber’s note:

  The Table of Contents at the beginning of the book was created by
  the transcriber.

  Minor punctuation and spelling errors have been silently corrected
  and, except for those changes noted below, all misspellings in the
  text, especially in dialogue, and inconsistent or archaic usage, have
  been retained.

  Page 67: “He is going to teach men,” changed to “He is going to
  teach me”.

  Page 86: “VI” changed to “VII”.

  Page 99: “What men do you men” changed to “What men do you mean”.



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SPAWN OF THE DESERT***


******* This file should be named 64284-0.txt or 64284-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/6/4/2/8/64284


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

